Functions Of Operating System

Memory Management
Processor Management
File Management
Device Management
I/O Management
Secondary Storage Management
Security
Command Interpretation
Networking
Communication Management
Job accounting


Features Of Operating System (OS)
User
Application
Operating System
Hardware

Hardware --> Kernel <--OS  --> Shell --> Terminal --> User



Difference Between 32-BIT AND 64-BIT OPERATING System
------------------------------------------------------

* 32 bit processor have 4 GB addressable space while 64 bit processors have 16 exabytes addressable space.
* 32 bit systems limited to 32 GB of RAM while 64 bit systems will enable you to store up to 17 Billion GB of RAM.
* 32 bit processors need a 32 bit operating system where as 64 bit processors can run either on 32 or 64 bit operating systems.
* 32 bit processors is not an ideal option for stress testing and multi-tasking
  whereas 64 bit processors are best for performing multi tasking and stress testing.



Windows Vs Linux

Windows
1. Windows uses different data drives like C: D: E to stored files and folders
2. Windows has different drive like C:D:E
3. Hard drives, CD-ROMs, printers are considered as devices.
4. There are 4 types os user account types 1. Administrator 2.Standard 3. Child 4. Guest
5. Administrator user has all administrative privileges of computers.
6. In Windows, you can not have 2 files with the same name in the same folder.
7. In Windows, My Documents is default home directory.

Linux
1. Unix/Linux uses a tree like a hierarchical file system.
2. There are no drives in Linux.
3. Peripherals like hard drives, CD-ROMs, printers are also considered files in Linux/Unix
4. There are 3 types of user account types 1. Regular 2. Root and 3. Service Account
5. Root user is the super user adn has all administrative privileges.
6. Linux file naming convention is case sensitive. Thus, sample and SAMPLE are 2 different files in 
   Linux/Unix operating system.
7. For every user/home/username directory is created which is called his home directory.





